---
title: Forseti 2.0 Launch
author: Henry Chang
---
Forseti 1.0 was initially launched at Google Cloud Next '17 a little over a year
ago. Since then, Forseti went on to be adopted by over 100 businesses and
organizations, helping to secure Google Cloud Platform environments large
and small.

We received great feedback on how Forseti could be improved, as well as insight
into additional features you like to see, which require making fundamental
architectural changes to Forseti in order to make the implementation possible.
The team embarked on a journey to make these changes in order to take Forseti to
the next level. As a result of all the hard work of our contributors, we are
ready to share some of the exciting new changes in Forseti 2.0 below!

__New Features__
* New Explain component to help you understand the effective roles and
permissions that affect your Google Cloud Platform resources from the
granted IAM policies.
* New CLI client to operate all the Forseti components on demand.
* Parallelized inventory process.
* Easier to add new inventory types: Bucket IAM Policies, API Configurations,
Audit Logging Configurations, Networks, Subnetworks, and G Suite Users.
* New scanners for service account key rotation, audit log configuration,
and enabled APIs.
* IAM policy scanner now audits bucket IAM policies.
* A more intuitive installation process with better default rule files.

__Architecture Improvements__
* Centralized table for all GCP inventory data, with optimized schema and
indexes for easier and faster queries.
* New auth library that negates the use of a separate G Suite service
account and exported key.
* Forseti GCE VMs now run on the latest Ubuntu 18.04.

If you are interested to upgrade from version 1.0, please see the
[Forseti v2 upgrade guide]({% link _docs/latest/setup/upgrade.md %}).


If you are new to Forseti, please see the [Forseti v2 installation guide]({% link _docs/latest/setup/install.md %}) to get started.

As always, we are eager for you to get involved, and add your ideas to take
Forseti to even greater heights!
